topic03/book-1/04.LambdaToDynamoDB.md, before:

## Lambda to DynamoDB.

Suppose we want a lambda function that reads a movie item from the table and returns it to the client. An HTTP request triggers this function, and the request should include a query parameter that specifies the movie's id:

![][getmovie]

We start by creating the infrastructure for this use case. In `simple-app-stack.ts`, add a new lambda function, placing it anywhere AFTER the declaration of the movies table:
~~~ts
    const getMovieByIdFn = new lambdanode.NodejsFunction(
      this,
      "GetMovieByIdFn",
      {
        architecture: lambda.Architecture.ARM_64,
        runtime: lambda.Runtime.NODEJS_22_X,
        entry: `${__dirname}/../lambdas/getMovieById.ts`,
        timeout: cdk.Duration.seconds(10),
        memorySize: 128,
        environment: {
          TABLE_NAME: moviesTable.tableName,
          REGION: 'eu-west-1',
        },
      }
    );

    const getMovieByIdURL = getMovieByIdFn.addFunctionUrl({
      authType: lambda.FunctionUrlAuthType.NONE,
      cors: {
        allowedOrigins: ["*"],
      },
    });

    moviesTable.grantReadData(getMovieByIdFn)

    new cdk.CfnOutput(this, "Get Movie Function Url", { value: getMovieByIdURL.url });
~~~
We pass two environment variables to the new lambda function: the DynamoDB table's name and the AWS region where the stack is deployed. The function requires permission to read from the table, which is achieved by the statement:

>    moviesTable.grantReadData(getMovieByIdFn)

The CDK framework generates an appropriate IAM policy from this statement and attaches the policy to the function's IAM execution role.

Create a new file for the lambda function called `lambdas/getMovieById.ts` and add the following code:
~~~ts
import { Handler } from "aws-lambda";
import { DynamoDBClient } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb";
import { DynamoDBDocumentClient, GetCommand } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb";

const ddbDocClient = createDDbDocClient();

export const handler: Handler = async (event, context) => {
  try {
    console.log("Event: ", JSON.stringify(event));
    const queryString = event?.queryStringParameters;
    const movieId = queryString ? parseInt(queryString.movieId) : undefined;

    if (!movieId) {
      return {
        statusCode: 404,
        headers: {
          "content-type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({ Message: "Missing movie Id" }),
      };
    }
    const commandOutput = await ddbDocClient.send(
      new GetCommand({
        TableName: process.env.TABLE_NAME,
        Key: { id: movieId },
      })
    );
    if (!commandOutput.Item) {
      return {
        statusCode: 404,
        headers: {
          "content-type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({ Message: "Invalid movie Id" }),
      };
    }
    const body = {
      data: commandOutput.Item,
    };

    // Return Response
    return {
      statusCode: 200,
      headers: {
        "content-type": "application/json",
      },
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
    };
  } catch (error: any) {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(error));
    return {
      statusCode: 500,
      headers: {
        "content-type": "application/json",
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({ error }),
    };
  }
};

function createDDbDocClient() {
  const ddbClient = new DynamoDBClient({ region: process.env.REGION });
  const marshallOptions = {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  };
  const unmarshallOptions = {
    wrapNumbers: false,
  };
  const translateConfig = { marshallOptions, unmarshallOptions };
  return DynamoDBDocumentClient.from(ddbClient, translateConfig);
}
~~~
The lambda function uses the DynamoDB SDK to communicate with the DynamoDB service. The service has an API, which the SDK understands. The SDK also performs marshalling and unmarshalling data between DynamoDB and itself. The SDK's uses the __command objects__ pattern in its interface with clients (e.g. Lambda function). These objects express the client's request. The above handler sends a GetCommand to the SDK, and the SDK translates it into a GetItem request for a single item from the movies table. 

Update the stack:
~~~bash
$ cdk deploy
~~~
The response looks as follows:

![][getitemdeploy]

Use the new function's URL in a browser tab to trigger the function:

![][getmovie]

Commit the changes:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Lambda communicating with DynamoDB"
~~~
Complete the testing of the new function by trying a request with an invalid movie id (e.g. 9999). The response should be:
      
>{"Message":"Invalid movie Id"}

Try a request with no query string:
      
>e.g. https://7v3jrykviqizhokjaqa35mevcu0qkczx.lambda-url.eu-west-1.on.aws/? 

The response should be:

>{"Message":"Missing movie Id"}

[getmovie]: ./img/getmovie.png
[getitemdeploy]: ./img/getitemdeploy.png

Commit message:

Prep Serverless topic - Slides and Lambda basics lab

topic03/book-1/04.LambdaToDynamoDB.md, after:

## Lambda to DynamoDB.

Suppose we want a lambda function that reads a movie item from the table and returns it to the client. An HTTP request triggers this function, and the request should include a query parameter that specifies the movie's id:

![][getmovie]

We start by creating the infrastructure for this use case. In `simple-app-stack.ts`, add a new lambda function, placing it anywhere AFTER the declaration of the movies table:
~~~ts
    const getMovieByIdFn = new lambdanode.NodejsFunction(
      this,
      "GetMovieByIdFn",
      {
        architecture: lambda.Architecture.ARM_64,
        runtime: lambda.Runtime.NODEJS_22_X,
        entry: `${__dirname}/../lambdas/getMovieById.ts`,
        timeout: cdk.Duration.seconds(10),
        memorySize: 128,
        environment: {
          TABLE_NAME: moviesTable.tableName,
          REGION: 'eu-west-1',
        },
      }
    );

    const getMovieByIdURL = getMovieByIdFn.addFunctionUrl({
      authType: lambda.FunctionUrlAuthType.NONE,
      cors: {
        allowedOrigins: ["*"],
      },
    });

    moviesTable.grantReadData(getMovieByIdFn)

    new cdk.CfnOutput(this, "Get Movie Function Url", { value: getMovieByIdURL.url });
~~~
We pass two environment variables to the new lambda function: the DynamoDB table's name and the AWS region where the stack is deployed. The function requires permission to read from the table, which is achieved by the statement:

>    moviesTable.grantReadData(getMovieByIdFn)

The CDK framework generates an appropriate IAM policy from this statement and attaches the policy to the function's IAM execution role.

Create a new file for the lambda function called `lambdas/getMovieById.ts` and add the following code:
~~~ts
import { Handler } from "aws-lambda";
import { DynamoDBClient } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb";
import { DynamoDBDocumentClient, GetCommand } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb";

const ddbDocClient = createDDbDocClient();

export const handler: Handler = async (event, context) => {
  try {
    console.log("Event: ", JSON.stringify(event));
    const queryString = event?.queryStringParameters;
    const movieId = queryString ? parseInt(queryString.movieId) : undefined;

    if (!movieId) {
      return {
        statusCode: 404,
        headers: {
          "content-type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({ Message: "Missing movie Id" }),
      };
    }
    const commandOutput = await ddbDocClient.send(
      new GetCommand({
        TableName: process.env.TABLE_NAME,
        Key: { id: movieId },
      })
    );
    if (!commandOutput.Item) {
      return {
        statusCode: 404,
        headers: {
          "content-type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({ Message: "Invalid movie Id" }),
      };
    }
    const body = {
      data: commandOutput.Item,
    };

    // Return Response
    return {
      statusCode: 200,
      headers: {
        "content-type": "application/json",
      },
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
    };
  } catch (error: any) {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(error));
    return {
      statusCode: 500,
      headers: {
        "content-type": "application/json",
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({ error }),
    };
  }
};

function createDDbDocClient() {
  const ddbClient = new DynamoDBClient({ region: process.env.REGION });
  const marshallOptions = {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  };
  const unmarshallOptions = {
    wrapNumbers: false,
  };
  const translateConfig = { marshallOptions, unmarshallOptions };
  return DynamoDBDocumentClient.from(ddbClient, translateConfig);
}
~~~
The lambda function uses the DynamoDB SDK to communicate with the DynamoDB service. The service has an API, which the SDK understands. The SDK also performs marshalling and unmarshalling data between DynamoDB and itself. The SDK's uses the __command objects__ pattern in its interface with clients (e.g. Lambda function). These objects express the client's request. The above handler sends a GetCommand to the SDK, and the SDK translates it into a GetItem request for a single item from the movies table. 

Update the stack:
~~~bash
$ cdk deploy
~~~
The response looks as follows:

![][getitemdeploy]

Use the new function's URL in a browser tab to trigger the function:

![][getmovie]

Commit the changes:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Lambda communicating with DynamoDB"
~~~
Complete the testing of the new function by trying a request with an invalid movie id (e.g. 9999). The response should be:
      
>{"Message":"Invalid movie Id"}

Try a request with no query string:
      
>e.g. https://7v3jrykviqizhokjaqa35mevcu0qkczx.lambda-url.eu-west-1.on.aws/? 

The response should be:

>{"Message":"Missing movie Id"}

Commit the changes:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Demo lambda function to read item from DynamoDB table."
~~~
[getmovie]: ./img/getmovie.png
[getitemdeploy]: ./img/getitemdeploy.png
