topic04/book-1/01.Startup.md, before:

## Start-up.

Download [this archive][start], unzip it and import it into VS Code. Open an integrate terminal and run:

```
$ npm install
```

The archive contained a skeleton Vite project for a React app. The `src` folder has been divided into several subfolders to reflect the different code elements of a React app based on best practices.

Our Movies Fan app will communicate with The TMDB API (Note: We will use version 3 of the API). An API Key authenticates all requests to the API. Please follow these steps to acquire a personal key for development:

- Signup for an account [here][signup].
- Log in to your account. To get a key, follow this sequence:
 
>>Settings > API > Create > Click on Request an API > Click "Developer" > Fill in form details (use localhost:300 for the URL and an arbitrary description)

![][apikey]

In VS Code, in the project base folder, create a new file called `.env` with the following content:

```
VITE_TMDB_KEY=.... your API key value ...
```

Later we will use this environment variable in HTTP calls to the API.

It is imperative to keep your API key private. For example, never include it in a project pushed up to GitHub. Notice, in `.gitignore`, it is listed in `.env` to safeguard against this.

---

## GitHub repository.
Create a repo in your GitHub account called 'labMoviesApp' and add it as a remote repo for the movies app project on your local computer. Type the following commands in the VS Code integrated terminal:
~~~
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/..your username.../labMoviesApp.git
~~~

Now, log in to [Moodle][moodle] and navigate to the Assessment section of this module. Click the 'Submit Lab Repo' link and upload a simple text file (reactLab.txt) that contains the URL of the GitHub repository you created. Note that labs are NOT part of the module's assessment, but we require evidence of time spent on the labs.

## The Development process.

_Thinking in React_ is a development process recommended by the React design team (discussed in the lectures). This lab is focused on the first step of this process, titled `Build a static version` of the app. In subsequent labs, we will add user interaction and routing.

[start]: ./archives/startcode.zip
[signup]: https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup
[tmdb]: https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/introduction
[apikey]: ./img/apikey.png
[moodle]: https://moodle.wit.ie/course/view.php?id=192173&section=1

Commit message:

Movies lab note for Node v18 adjustment.

topic04/book-1/01.Startup.md, after:

## Start-up.

Download [this archive][start], unzip it and import it into VS Code. Open an integrate terminal and run:

```
$ npm install
```

The archive contained a skeleton Vite project for a React app. The `src` folder has been divided into several subfolders to reflect the different code elements of a React app based on best practices.

Our Movies Fan app will communicate with The TMDB API (Note: We will use version 3 of the API). An API Key authenticates all requests to the API. Please follow these steps to acquire a personal key for development:

- Signup for an account [here][signup].
- Log in to your account. To get a key, follow this sequence:
 
>>Settings > API > Create > Click on Request an API > Click "Developer" > Fill in form details (use localhost:300 for the URL and an arbitrary description)

![][apikey]

In VS Code, in the project base folder, create a new file called `.env` with the following content:

```
VITE_TMDB_KEY=.... your API key value ...
```

Later we will use this environment variable in HTTP calls to the API.

It is imperative to keep your API key private. For example, never include it in a project pushed up to GitHub. Notice, in `.gitignore`, it is listed in `.env` to safeguard against this.

---

## GitHub repository.
Create a repo in your GitHub account called 'labMoviesApp' and add it as a remote repo for the movies app project on your local computer. Type the following commands in the VS Code integrated terminal:
~~~
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/..your username.../labMoviesApp.git
~~~

Now, log in to [Moodle][moodle] and navigate to the Assessment section of this module. Click the 'Submit Lab Repo' link and upload a simple text file (reactLab.txt) that contains the URL of the GitHub repository you created. Note that labs are NOT part of the module's assessment, but we require evidence of time spent on the labs.

## The Development process.

_Thinking in React_ is a development process recommended by the React design team (discussed in the lectures). This lab is focused on the first step of this process, titled `Build a static version` of the app. In subsequent labs, we will add user interaction and routing.

---------------------------------------

__Node version:__ If you are using v18 of the Node platform, you need to make some changes to the `package.json` of the project you downloaded at the start of this section. Add a new entry to the devDependencies part:
~~~
  "devDependencies": {
    "cross-env": "^6.0.3",
   . . . . .  as before . . . .. 
~~~
and change an existing script entry:
~~~
 "scripts": {
    "storybook": "cross-env NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider start-storybook -p 6006 -s public",
. . . . as before . . . . 
 ~~~
Now rerun the command:
~~~
$ npm install
~~~

[start]: ./archives/startcode.zip
[signup]: https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup
[tmdb]: https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/introduction
[apikey]: ./img/apikey.png
[moodle]: https://moodle.wit.ie/course/view.php?id=192173&section=1
