topic07/book-1/05.Storybook.md, before:

## Update Storybook.

The storybook stories we wrote in part 1 of this series no longer work due to refactoring and enhancements made to the components in subsequent labs. To fix this, download [this archive][stories], unzip it and copy each of the files into your `src/stories` folder - you are overwriting your current story files.

The critical differences in the updated story implementations are as follows:

1. Sometimes, a component expects/requires a particular component type to be above it in the component hierarchy. In Storybook, we need to *add a Decorator* to the story to satisfy these requirements. A decorator wraps a story's component inside another component. The most common wrappers are Contexts and Routers.  
1. Any component that uses the Link component needs to be wrapped inside a Router component. In the app code, the BrowserRouter component served this purpose. In Storybook, we can use MemoryRouter, which is more lightweight.
1. A decorator is also used for stories that require the MoviesContext provider.
1. Ditto for components that use the QueryClient provider.

Start the Storybook server:
~~~
$ npm run storybook
~~~

An error is thrown n the StoryBook UI:

![][storieserror]

Download and unzip [this archive][stories]. Copy the `stories` folder to the `src` folder of your project - overwriting the current `src/stories` folder. Refresh the Storybook UI in the browser. All the stories should now render correctly.

Review the updated story files. For example, the stories for the MovieDetails component (in `src/stories/movieDetails.stories.js`) needed the MemoryRouter and MoviesContextProvider as decorators:

~~~
export default {
  title: "Movie Details Page/MovieDetails",
  component: MovieDetails,
  decorators: [
    (Story) => <MemoryRouter initialEntries={["/"]}>{Story()}</MemoryRouter>,
    (Story) => <MoviesContextProvider>{Story()}</MoviesContextProvider>,
  ],
};

export const Basic = () => <MovieDetails movie={SampleMovie} />;
Basic.storyName = "Default";
~~~

Commit this work:
~~~
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Fix broken stories in Storybook."
$ git push origin main
~~~

[storieserror]: ./img/storieserror.png
[stories]: ./archive/stories.zip

Commit message:

Minor updates to Movies App lab, part 4.

topic07/book-1/05.Storybook.md, after:

## Update Storybook.

The storybook stories we wrote in part 1 of this series no longer work due to refactoring and enhancements made to the components in subsequent labs. Confir this by starting the Storybook server:
~~~
$ npm run storybook
~~~
A typical error is illustrated below:

![][storieserror]

To fix the errors, download [this archive][stories], unzip it and copy each of the files into your `src/stories` folder - you are overwriting your current story files. Refresh the Storybook UI in the browser. All the stories should now render correctly.

The critical differences in the updated story implementations are as follows:

1. Often a component must be composed with another to work correctly. A typical example is Context Providers. In Storybook, we *add a Decorator* to the story to satisfy these requirements. A decorator wraps a story's component inside another component. 
1. Any component that uses the Link component needs to be wrapped inside a Router component. The BrowserRouter component served this purpose in our app. In Storybook, we can use MemoryRouter, which is more lightweight.
1. Components that use react-query must be composed with the QueryClient provider.


Review the updated story files. For example, the stories for the MovieDetails component (in `src/stories/movieDetails.stories.js`) needed the MemoryRouter and MoviesContextProvider as decorators:

~~~
export default {
  title: "Movie Details Page/MovieDetails",
  component: MovieDetails,
  decorators: [
    (Story) => <MemoryRouter initialEntries={["/"]}>{Story()}</MemoryRouter>,
    (Story) => <MoviesContextProvider>{Story()}</MoviesContextProvider>,
  ],
};

export const Basic = () => <MovieDetails movie={SampleMovie} />;
Basic.storyName = "Default";
~~~

Commit these updates:
~~~
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Fix broken stories in Storybook."
$ git push origin main
~~~

[storieserror]: ./img/storieserror.png
[stories]: ./archive/stories.zip
