# Assignment 2 specification.

## Overview.

__Objective:__ Demonstrate your knowledge of API's, Express, Mongoose, Authentication by developing an API and integrate it with your React app from Assignment 1.The app may extend the Movies API developed in the labs (preference) or a bespoke app (subject to approval).

Completion: 18/05/2022.

Weight: 40%.

Deliverables:
A text file (assignment2.txt) containing:

+ The URL of your source code GitHub repo.
     + With a completed README.md (see provided template).
+ The URL of your YouTube video demonstrating your API.
    + We may follow up with a Zoom meeting for Q and A (if required).

##### The README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. We will provide a template later.

##### You must maintain a detailed Git commit history throughout the assignment period. We advise that you commit at every development session - the 'only commit working code' principle need not always apply. Commit messages must always explain the purpose of each session, whether achieved or not.

## Grading spectrum.

### Good (40-50%).
__Theme:__ Apply knowledge of the technology's fundamentals.

__Objective:__  Basic new features developed.

__Features:__
+ Routes/Endpoints
    + 2 new API routes,
    + parameterised URL.
+ Repository
    + Integration with MongoDB
+ Basic React Integration
    + At least one GET and POST based endpoint used.

### Very Good(50-70%).
__Theme:__ Adapt and experiment (with the technology).

__Objective:__ Good API design and implementation inspired by TMDB API. Extensive work done to API to support React App. Some unique and well conceived functionality included.

__Features:__

+ Coherent API design and modelling supporting full manipulation of resources.
+ Nested Document in Mongo/Mongoose.
+ Custom validation using Joi.
+ Basic Authentication and protected routes.
+ Good use of express middleware (e.g. Error handling).
+ Substantial React App integration.
+ Other (Discuss with the lecturer)

>*1 - The user can create their fantasy movie. Limit the details to : 
Title, Overview, Genres, Release Date, Runtime, and Poster(s). The user can add cast members subsequently by selecting from an actors list view (or other means).

>*2 - Search for movies based on criteria submitted on a web form. The form should use appropriate controls - menus, checkbox, etc.

## Excellent(70-85%)

**Theme:** Confident Developer

**Characteristics:** Can understand and use techniques and technologies not covered in the labs/lectures.

**Features (Some of the following):**

- Advanced authentication/verification to accomplish richer functionality.
- Excellent use of 3rd party tools,services and modules.
- API documentation (for example Swagger/openAPI)
- Logging
- Create supporting  Endpoints for "Fantasy Movie" functionality in React app(if you did this as part of Assign. 1)

##  Outstanding (85-100%)
__Theme:__ Design Solutions/Exceptional Ability

__Objective:__  Fully functional end-to-end solution providing novel features and extensive features similar to TMDB api, and more.

+ Live Hosting, Analytics

+ Recommender algorithm - Recommend movies based on favourites



