## Enterprise Web Development - Assignment 1.

__Objective:__ Design and develop a secure, serverless Web API for managing movie review postings. Host the API on the AWS platform and use the CDK framework to provision the infrastructure resources.

__Completion date:__ 22/03/2025.

__CA mark:__ 30%.

__Deliverables:__

+ A text file (serverless-assignment.txt) containing:
   + The URL of the GitHub repository. 
   + The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the API. 
   + Upload the text file to [this Moodle location][moodle].
Notes:
+ The repo's README documents the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. We will provide a template. 
+ Your repo's Git log must have a clear, understandable, and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarize the work performed (What task were you working on?) at each stage.

### Detailed Specification.

#### App API.

The Web API (App API) should support the following endpoints:

+ GET /movies/reviews/[movieId] - Get all the reviews for the specified movie. It will also support an optional query string that specifies a review ID or reviewer identity (email address), e.g. ?revieId=1234 or ?reviewerName=joe@gmail.com. 
+ POST /movies/reviews - add a movie review. Only authenticated users can post a review.
+ PUT /movies/{movieId}/reviews/{reviewId} - Update the text of a review. 
+ GET /reviews/{reviewId}/{movieId}/translation?language=code - Get a translated version of a movie review, using the movie ID and review Id as the identifier.

#### Authentication. 
The app's stack infrastructure should include a separate API for processing user authentication requests (the Auth API). It should allow users to self-register, login, and log out. 

#### Authorization.
Only authenticated users can perform POST and PUT requests, whereas GET requests are publicly accessible. In addition, only the originator of a review can update it. 

#### Amazon Translate.
"Amazon Translate is a Neural Machine Translation (MT) service for translating text between supported languages .... enabling developers to build applications requiring support across multiple languages. The service can be used via an API, enabling real-time or batch translation of text from the source to the target language." [AWS Docs][translate]

See [this video][demo] for a demonstration.

Repeat requests for the same translations should not be made to the Translate service to reduce cost. Instead, the App API should persist translations to DynamoDB and use these to respond to repeat requests, i.e. a form of caching.

#### DynamoDB table design.

The app requires one database table - MovieReviews - with the following item attributes: 

+ MovieId (Partition key) - Number
+ ReviewId - Number (Autogenerated) 
+ ReviewerId - String (reviewer email address).
+ ReviewDate - String, e.g. "2025-01-20".
+ Content - String (the review text).

Note you can assume:
1. A reviewer will never publish more than one review for the same movie.
1. A review item's movie ID and review ID combination are unique.
1. Reviews are published in English by default.

### Grading Spectrum.

__Good (40-50%):__

Functionality: Support for basic CRUD functionality - no authentication or translations.

__Very Good (50-65%)__:
Functionality: Support for extended GET reviews.
Security: User authentication and authorization. POST and PUT require authentication.

__Excellent (65-80%)__:
Performance: Translation persistence.
Authorization: Restricted review updates.

__Outstanding (80+)__:
Performance: API Gateway validators.

[translate]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is.html
[demo]: https://completecoding.io/typescript-translation-api/
[moodle]: https://moodle.wit.ie/mod/assign/view.php?id=4471533
