
# Assignment 1 specification.

## Overview.

__Objective:__ Demonstrate your knowledge of the React framework and ecosystem by designing and developing a SPA. The app may extend the Movies app developed in the labs (preference) or a bespoke app (subject to approval).

Completion: 29/04/2022.

Weight: 60%.

Deliverables:
A text file (assignment1.txt) containing:
+ The URL of your source code GitHub repo.
     + With a completed README.md (see provided template).
+ The URL of your YouTube video demonstrating your app.
    + We may follow up with a Zoom meeting for Q and A (if required).

##### The README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. We will provide a template later.

##### You must maintain a detailed Git commit history throughout the assignment period. We advise that you commit at every development session - the 'only commit working code' principle need not always apply. Commit messages must always explain the purpose of each session, whether achieved or not.

## Grading spectrum.

### Good (40-60%).
__Theme:__ Apply knowledge (of the technology's fundamentals).

__Objective:__ The new features developed are similar in component structure, UI style and behaviour to those produced in the labs.

__Features:__
+ UI.
    + Additional data-listing pages, e.g. Top-rated movies, Similar movies, Actors, Movie cast, Actor details.
    + Multi-criteria filtering and sorting.
+ Routing.
    + Mix of static and parameterised routes.
    + Extensive data hyperlinking.
        + Multiple parameterized URLs.  
+ API integration.
    + ~4 new TMDB endpoints. 
    + Server state caching.
+ Storybook support (mew components).

### Excellent (60-80%).
__Theme:__ Adapt and experiment (with the technology).

__Objective:__ In addition to data-listing views/pages, the student can experiment with the technology's concepts and constructs to produce novel app features.  

__Features:__
+ My Fantasy movie (*1)
+ Multi-criteria Search. (*2)
+ Pagination - for data-listing pages. (#3)   
+ Storybook support.
+ Other (Discuss with the lecturer)

>*1 - The user can create their fantasy movie. Limit the details to : 
Title, Overview, Genres, Release Date, Runtime, and Poster(s). After creating the initial record, the user adds the cast, perhaps using a tagging technique or another approach.

>*2 - Search for movies (actors) based on criteria submitted on a web form. The form should use appropriate controls - menus, checkbox, etc.

>*3 - See [react-query pagination][pagination] support.

## Outstanding (80+)
__Theme:__ Design Solutions (using the technology).

__Objective:__ The student can analyse a product requirement and design a sophisticated solutions. The app has robust security.

Features:
+ Comparison algorithm - Similar movies (by genre) OR Similar actors (by genre) (*1)
+ Persistencw and Sessions.
+ Authentication.
    + A mixture of private and public pages/features.
+ Other (Discuss with the lecturer)

>*1 - Similar movies: Find other movies with one or more genres in common with a given film. Limit the scope of the comparison (e.g. 60). Display the result in decreasing order of similarity. For additional marks, use other criteria to enhance your comparison algorithm. 

>Similar actors: For a given actor's filmography, compute the number of movies in each genre. Then find other actors that have similar genre profiles. Limit the scope of the comparison (e.g. 60). Display the result in decreasing order of similarity.
 
[pagination]: https://react-query.tanstack.com/guides/paginated-queries