## Enterprise Web Development - Assignment 1.

__Objective:__ Design and develop a secure, serverless Web API for managing movie review postings. Host the API on AWS and use the CDK to automate provisioning its infrastructure.

__Completion date:__ 22/03/2026

__CA mark:__ 30%.

__Deliverables:__

+ A text file (serverless-assignment.txt) containing:
   + The URL of the GitHub repository. 
   + The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the API.
Upload the text file to [this Moodle location][moodle].

Notes:
+ To avoid plagiarism, you must set your GitHub repository visibility to PRIVATE. Shortly after the completion deadline, I will request that it be set to public visibility to enable assessment..
+ The repo's README documents the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. We will provide a template. 
+ Your repo's Git log must have a clear, understandable, and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarize the work performed (What task were you working on?) at each stage.

### Detailed Specification.

#### App API.

The Web API (App API) should support the following endpoints:

+ GET /movies/{movieID}/reviews[?reviewer=reviewerID] - Get all the reviews for the specified movie. 
      + Support an optional query string that specifies a reviewer ID (email address), e.g. ?reviewer=joe@gmail.com. Only the review by that person should be returned. The full address is not necessary, e.g.  ?revieIdreviewerName=joe@gm. Now it should return the review(s) that start with this address substring.
+ GET /reviews?movie=movieID&date=reviewDate - Get the reviews for a movie where the publication date/time stamp matches the reviewDate query parameter. The format of the date parameter is 
  
+ POST /movies/reviews - add a movie review. Only authenticated users can post a review.
+ PUT /movies/{movieId}/reviews?reviewerID - Update the text of a review. 

#### Authentication. 
The app's stack infrastructure should include a separate API for processing user authentication requests (the Auth API). It should allow users to self-register, log in, and log out. 

#### Authorisation.
Only authenticated users can perform POST and PUT requests, whereas GET requests are publicly accessible. In addition, only the originator of a review can update it. 

#### Data Entities.
The domain data types used by the app are:

+ Movie.
       + movie ID - number.
       + title - string.
       + release date - string.
         overview - string.

Review.
movie ID - number.
reviewerID - string (email address).
content - string.
publish date - string (date).

#### DynamoDB table design.

The database will follow the Single-table design principle; all data (movies and reviews) is stored in one table. The table’s partition key will be the data entity’s ID, prefixed with a type identify character. The prefixes used are:
Movie - m.
Review - r
Cloud App Development - Assignment Specification.
IMPORTANT Please read the following instructions before commencing this assignment, as it may significantly impact your grade:
Read the entire specification before commencing development, and clarify any aspects you do not understand.
You are advised to set the visibility of your GitHub repo to PRIVATE to prevent plagiarism of your work. After the deadline date, you will be reminded to make it publicly accessible so that it can be assessed.
Your repo’s Git log must have a clear, understandable and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarise the work performed at each stage.
You are expected to spread the effort required to complete the assignment over the period involved; do not cram the work into a few days just before the deadline, as this is not conducive to proper learning and will result in a minimal mark
Objective: Demonstrate your understanding of the serverless services available on the AWS platform by designing and developing a serverless web API for a movie information system. The solution must use the CDK framework to provision the AWS resources required to support the API.
Completion date: 12/11/2025.
Weighting: 45%.
Deliverables: You should submit to this Moodle link a text file (assignment.txt) containing:
The URL of your GitHub repository.
The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the API.
Notes:
The repo README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. A template will be provided.
Detailed Specification.
The Web API.
The REST API (App API) should meet the following endpoint requirements:
GET /movies/movieid - return a specific movie item.
GET /movies/movieid/actors - return all actors in a movie.
GET /movies/movieid/actors/actorid - get a movie cast member
GET /awards?movie=movieid&actor=actorid&awardBody=name - all combinations of querystring options are possible.
movie - awards won by specific movie.
movie and actor - awards won by the specific movie and actor.
movie, actor, and award body - awards won by the specific movie and actor for a particular award body.
movie and award body - award won by the movie for the award body…
actor and award body - the award(s) won by the actor for the award body.
etc
POST /movies - add a new movie item.
DELETE /movies/movieid - delete a specific movie item
Data entities.
The core domain data types used by the app are:
Movie.
movie ID - number.
title - string.
release date - string.
overview - string.
Actor.
actor id - number.
name - string.
bio - string.
date of birth - string.
Cast (Movie cast).
movie id
actor id
role name - string.
role description - string.
Award (Awards could be for an actor or a movie).
award id - number (movie id or an actor id.)
body - string (e.g. Bafta, Academy, Golden Globe)
category - string (e.g. Best Actor, Best Foreign Language movie)
year - number
DynamoDB table design.
The database design will follow the Single-table design principle. All data types (movies, actors, etc) are stored in one table. The table’s partition key will be the data entity’s ID (as a string), prefixed with a character to identify the entity type. The prefixes used are:
Movie - m.
Actor - a.
Cast - c.
Award - w.
The partition key value (excluding the prefix) for the different entity types is as follows:
Movie - movie ID.
Review - movie ID.
The table has a composite primary key, where the sort key value depends on the entity type, as follows:
Movie - xxxx (default).
Review - reviewer ID.

Note: Assume a reviewer only writes one review for a specific movie.

Sample table items are as follows:
A movie:
m1234 | xxxx | The Shawshank Redemption | 05-03-1995 | A banker convicted of uxoricide forms a friendship over a quarter century with a hardened convict …
A review:
r1234 | jbloggs@here.com | 20-04-1995 |  Moving, brilliant, inspirational, hopeful and empowering are all words that describe "The Shawshank Redemption." With outstanding performances from its ensemble cast and ........

### Grading Spectrum.

__Good (40-50%):__

+ Functionality: Support for basic CRUD functionality - no authentication or translations.

__Very Good (50-65%)__:

+ Functionality: Support for extended GET reviews.
+ Security: User authentication and authorization. POST and PUT require authentication.

__Excellent (65-80%)__:

+ Design: Custom construct. 
+ Performance: Translation persistence.
+ Authorization: Restricted review updates.

__Outstanding (80+)__:

+ Performance: API Gateway validators.

[translate]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is.html
[demo]: https://completecoding.io/typescript-translation-api/
[moodle]: https://moodle.wit.ie/mod/assign/view.php?id=4471533
